
# Chatbot API using NestJS

This is a REST API built with NestJS that provides chatbot functionality using GPT. This API allows you to send a message to the bot and receive a response based on the message sent. The API supports JSON input and output and uses the GPT API from OpenAI to generate responses.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Before you can run this API, you will need to have the following installed:

-   Node.js (v14 or higher)
-   npm
-   An OpenAI API key

### Installation

1.  Clone this repository to your local machine.

	git clone https://github.com/glourenco/chatbot.gpt.nodejs

2.  Install the dependencies.

	cd chatbot.gpt.nestjs && npm install

3.  Set your OpenAI API key as an environment variable.

    export OPENAI_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>

### Running the API

To start the API, run the following command:

    npm start 

This will start the API on `http://localhost:3000`.

### Example Request

Here's an example request using cURL to send a message to the chatbot API:

    curl --location 'http://localhost:3000/message' \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    --data '{
        "text":"What is NestJS?"
    }'

This request sends a JSON object with a `text` property containing the message to be sent to the chatbot. The API will return a JSON object with a `message` property containing the response generated by GPT.

## API Endpoints

### `POST /message`

Send a message to the chatbot and receive a response.

#### Request

    POST /message
    Content-Type: application/json
    
    {
        "text": "What is NestJS"
    }

| Parameter | Type | Description | 
| --------- | ------ | ---------------------------- |
 | `text` | string | **Required.** The user's message. |


#### Response

    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Type: application/json
    
    {
        "message": "NestJS is a framework for building efficient, scalable Node.js web applications."
    }

| Property | Type | Description |
 | -------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
  | `text` | string | The chatbot's response generated by GPT based on the user's message. |


